= System info = 
$cat /etc/lsb_release

# get kernel info (without "a" option, just get OSX/linux)
uname -a

# check how much memory you've got available
$free -h

# hardware info
$cat /proc/cpuinfo
# (^for CPU), or:
dmidecode -t [2-baseboard, 4-CPU, ...]

# hard drive usage
$du  [location]  -hd1
# -h is human readable, d1 is 1 level deep (just show usage for that directory, don't worry about distribution among subdirs)

# list hardware
$ lshw

# network info
ip a

= set default text editor =
sudo update-alternatives --config edit

= file info =
* apropos        -- looking for a command, but don't know the name of it
* file <myfile>  -- get basic info on a file
* stat <myfile>  -- ownership, modification, etc.

= Desktop managers: gdm3, lightdm, etc. =

gdm3, kdm, and lightdm are all display managers. They provide graphical logins and handle user authentication.

 == GNOME Display Manager (gdm3) ==

gdm3 is the successor of gdm which was the GNOME display manager. The newer gdm3 uses a minimal version of gnome-shell, and provides the same look and feel of as GNOME3 session. Is the Canonical choice since Ubuntu 17.10. You can install it with:

sudo apt-get install gdm3

and remove it with:

sudo apt-get remove gdm3

 == KDE Display Manager (kdm) ==

kdm was KDE's display manager. But it's been deprecated in KDE5 in favor of SDDM, which is more capable as a display manager, and hence comes by default with Kubuntu. You can install it with:

sudo apt-get install sddm

and remove it with:

sudo apt-get remove sddm

 == LightDM ==

LightDM was Canonical's solution for a display manager. It was supposed to be lightweight and comes by default with Ubuntu, Xubuntu, and Lubuntu. It's configurable, with various greeter themes available.

You can install it with:

sudo apt-get install lightdm

And remove it with:

sudo apt-get remove lightdm

Repairing is broad term. However, if you have multiple display managers installed, you can choose between them using:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm3

You can use any display manager's name in place of gdm3 in the above command, and it will allow you to choose between them. You must reboot for the change to take affect.

 == check current ==

To check which display manager is currently being used, run this command:

cat /etc/X11/default-display-manager

