# Template func: default values must come at the the end. 

def my_func( non_default1, non_default2, default="default_value", default2="other_defval"):
    print("Hello, %s , From My Function!, I wish you %s"%(non_default1, non_default2, defaulted))
    return()

# --- Function object    :{{{1
>>> A=my_func
# (Without the brackets) sets A equal to the function object my_func.
>>> A()
# will then initiate execution.

# --- Defaults           :{{{1
>>> my_func( non_default1, non_default2 )
or
>>> my_func( non_default1, non_default2, default )
or
>>> my_func( non_default1, non_default2, default2="something_else" )

point being: the non-defaulted are provided in order. The defaulted _can_ follow order, or can be directly specified.

# --- Multiple args      :{{{1
https://www.learnpython.org/en/Multiple_Function_Arguments

def foo(first, second, third, *therest):
   return(len(therest) )
                
len( foo(1,2,3,4,5) ) --> 2

Here, "therest" variable is a list of variables, which receives all arguments which were given to the "foo" function after the first 3 arguments. **IN ORDER**

If you want to make these options order-independent, then provide an additional asterix:

def bar(first, second, third, **options):
    if options.get("action") == "sum":
            print("The sum is: %d" %(first + second + third))
            
    if options.get("number") == "first":
            return first
                        
result = bar(1, 2, 3, action = "sum", number = "first")
print("Result: %d" %(result))

# --- Partial functions  :{{{1
These are the opposite, in a sense that you want to derive a simpler function from a more complex one, by fixing the input values (from left to right)

from functools import partial

def multiply3(x,y,z):
        return x * y * z
        
# create a new function that multiplies by 2
dbl = partial(multiply3, 1.5, 4)
# The x value is now always 1.5, and the y value is fixed at 4
# you must supply the z val.
# print(dbl(4))

# --- Methods            :{{{1
# Methods are like functions but confined to within classes:
class Pet(object):
   def my_method(self):
      print("I am a Cat")
cat = Pet()
cat.my_method()

# because the method is called on an object, it can access the data within it.
# Methods can also modify the object’s state. 
# Python functions generally don't modify class objects passed to it.

# --- Decorators         :{{{1
# Don't yet know why these are useful, but here's a template:
@decorator
def functions(arg):
    return "value"
# is equivalent to:
def function(arg):
    return "value"
function = decorator(function) 

# A more fully fleshed-out template:
from functools import wraps
def a_new_decorator(a_func):
    @wraps(a_func)
    def wrapTheFunction():
       print("Before executing a_func()")
       a_func()
       print("After executing a_func()")
    return wrapTheFunction
    
@a_new_decorator
def a_function_requiring_decoration():
    """Hey you! Decorate me!"""
    print("I am a function that needs decoration")
